# pyro-sys-setup
Set-up and manage our hardware fire detection systems.

Actually, this is a proposed skeleton of this project and guidelines for clean and tidy usage. These are subject to future developments.

## Table of contents

- [pyro-sys-setup](#pyro-sys-setup)
  * [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  * [Getting started](#getting-started)
    + [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    + [Installation](#installation)
  * [Usage](#usage)
  * [Directory layout](#directory-layout)
  * [First steps](#first-steps-before-running-any-playbooks)
  * [Use master.yml playbook](#use-masteryml-playbook)
  * [Example of playbooks to run independently](#example-of-playbooks-to-run-independently)
  * [Contributing](#contributing)
  * [License](#license)

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 (or more recent)
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/)

### Installation

You can clone and install the project dependencies as follows:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/pyronear/pyro-sys-setup.git
pip install -r pyro-sys-setup/requirements.txt
ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml
```

## Usage
By convention, we will use YAML format for inventory files.

Following Ansible [guidelines](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/sample_setup.html), you can find below the structure of the project

## Directory layout

```bash
.
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── RpiSETUP.md                 # guidelines to setup your Raspberry Pi before using this repository
├── group_vars		            # directory to assign variables to particular groups
│   └── group_example.yml       
├── host_vars                   # directory to assign variables to particular systems
│   └── hosts.yml         # inventory file 
├── files                       # directory to gather files and folders needed for system roles/tasks
├──    └──ansible_on_main_rpi         # directory containing all related ansible files needed for master rpi to run playbooks
├── templates                   # directory to gather files needed for templating
├── vars                        # directory containing Ansible environment variables (see main.yml.dist for template)
├── requirements.txt
├── requirements.yml
├── playbooks                   # directory to gather playbooks
├── roles                       # directory to gather roles
│   └── common
│       └── main_exemple.yml
├── ansible.cfg                 # user config file, overrides the default config if present
└── master.yml                  # main playbook
```

## First steps, before running any playbooks

You need sshpass on your local machine:
````bash
brew install hudochenkov/sshpass/sshpass
````

**CAREFUL** You also need to modify `host_vars/hosts.yml` to put your own rpi `ansible_host`, `ansible_user`, `ansible_password` and `ansible_python_interpreter`.

Then, refer to RpiSETUP.md for simple instructions upon flashing your SD Card.

If you want multiple `id_rsa.pub` keys to be added on all your raspberry pis (other than the public key of the localhost 
launching the playbooks), you can add the keys in the folder `files/ssh_localhost_keys`.
These keys will then be added by the role `ssh_role` in the `authorized_keys` of your raspberry pis, allowing you to ssh on them if needed.
Each public key has to be added in a separate file, for instance:
- `id_rsa_user1.pub`
- `id_rsa_user2.pub` \
And so on. \
The public key of the local machine that you are using to launch Ansible and the playbooks will be automatically added 
  by the `ssh_role`, provided that you give the path to your public key in `roles/ssh_role/defaults/main.yml` by changing
  the variable `public_key_path`.

Finally, you need to add a **SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL** (incoming webhook app) in `vars/main.yml`. 
To get more information on how to create an incoming webhook app, see this [documentation](https://api.slack.com/tutorials/slack-apps-hello-world).

For instructions regarding the directory `files/ansible_on_main_rpi`, please refer to its `README.md` in the corresponding directory.

## Usage of OpenVPN

On our installation we decided to use OpenVPN. The client and everything related are installed through the playbook 
`playbooks/install_openvpn_client.yml`. In order to use it correctly, on all `raspberry_mains`, once needs to add the generated
`.ovpn` files and corresponding passwords in the directory `files/openvpn`. For each main raspberry, the structure is the following:
- `{ raspberry_name_in_hosts.yml }.ovpn`: the client file generated by our OpenVPN server
- `{ raspberry_name_in_hosts.yml }_password.ovpn`: the password of the raspberry's OpenVPN account (you have to create this file).

**If you do not use OpenVPN, do not run this playbook**.

## Use master.yml playbook:
This is the master playbook, used to setup our fleet of RPI. To run it:

```bash
ansible-playbook master.yml
```

## Example of playbooks to run independently:

If rather than using directly the master playbook you'd like to take a look at each playbook independently, you can follow these steps:

On first try:
````bash
ansible-playbook playbooks/add_ssh_key_playbook.yml
````
with role to set up ssh connexion with keys

Then, to deactivate password authentification:
````bash
ansible-playbook playbooks/deactivate_password_playbook.yml
````

To run enable camera usage on RPI:
```bash
ansible-playbook playbooks/enable_camera_playbook.yml
```

To run the core playbook:
```bash
ansible-playbook playbooks/common_playbook.yml
```
**CAREFUL** `tags=always` are always run ! 

To stop a service:
```bash
ansible-playbook playbooks/stop_service_playbook.yml --extra-vars service=docker
```

## Contributing
Please refer to `CONTRIBUTING` if you wish to contribute to this project.

## License 
Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See LICENSE for more information.





